.TH "Note" 7 2020-09-09
.SH Note 
.LP
\f[CR]Note\f[R] is a simple CLI based note taking application. 
.SS The Anatomy of a Note
.LP
A note is a simple markdown document that contains zero or more instances of structured data encoded as YAML or JSON. Notes can optionally contain \f[CR]front-matter\f[R] at the head of each file, which is YAML or JSON enclosed by a pair of \f[CR]---\f[R].
.sp 1
.nf
.ft CR
---
title: This is a Note
tags: [ocaml, programming]
---

# Hello World!

Today will be a nice day.
.ft
.fi
.SS Configuration
.LP
The behavior of \f[CR]note\f[R] can be configured with yaml file stored in \f[CR]\(ti/.config/note/config.yaml\f[R] and configure itself per the XDG Base Directory 
\f[I]specification\f[R].
You can view the resolved configuration by running \f[CR]note config\f[R]:
.sp 1
.nf
.ft CR
state_dir: /home/kevin/.local/share/note
lock_file: /home/kevin/.local/share/note.lock
editor: nvim
on_modification: note_commit.sh
.ft
.fi
.SS Structured Data
.LP
Notes that contain code blocks with structured data as well as front-matter are automatically parsed and exposed via the command API.
.SS Example
.sp 1
.nf
.ft CR
note create -stdin <<EOF

# Musical Styles

\(ga\(ga\(gayaml
- style: Bomba
  influenced:
  - style: Plena
  - style: Reggaet贸n
    influenced:
    - style: Latin Trap
    - style: Bachat贸n
\(ga\(ga\(ga
EOF

# Now let's inspect the code block with jq
note cat -encoding json "Musical Styles" | jq .data[0]
[
  {
    "style": "Bomba",
    "influenced": [
      {
        "style": "Plena"
      },
      {
        "style": "Reggaet贸n",
        "influenced": [
          {
            "style": "Latin Trap"
          },
          {
            "style": "Bachat贸n"
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
]
.ft
.fi
.SS The State Directory
.LP
Each note is stored as a flat file inside the \f[CR]state_dir\f[R] with a slug that corresponds to the 
date (YYYYMMDD) on which it was created. If multiple notes are created on one day, an index will
be appended to the file.
.sp 1
.nf
.ft CR
$ tree \(ti/.local/share/note/
/home/kevin/.local/share/note/
 note-20200818-1.md
 note-20200819-1.md
 note-20200819-2.md
 note-20200819-3.md
.ft
.fi
.SS Persisting Notes with Git
.LP
If the \f[CR]on_modification\f[R] configuration option is set it will be called each time a note is modified. This feature can be used to automatically commit your notes to a git repository with a script such as below:
.sp 1
.nf
.ft CR
#!/bin/bash
# This is an example script that can be used in conjunction with the
# on_modification config option to commit every note change to a git
# repository. You'll need to place it somewhere on your $PATH. This
# script assumes that your state_dir is also a git repository.
set -e

STATE_DIR="$(note config -get state_dir)"

pushd "$STATE_DIR"
git add --all
git commit -m 'automated commit'
popd
.ft
.fi
.SS Web UI
.LP
Notes are stored in a format that is compatible with the static website generator 
\f[I]Hugo\f[R]
and thus you can point your \f[CR]state_dir\f[R] to a Hugo content directory and get a web based interface for all of your notes.
.SS Subcommands
.SS Cat
.LP
Write one or more notes to stdout. By default the cat command will write every note to stdout as plain text however the encoding can be adjusted to \f[CR]yaml\f[R] or \f[CR]json\f[R] for consumption by other tools.
.SS Examples
.sp 1
.nf
.ft CR
# print the parsed content of the fuubar note
note cat fuubar
# write all commands as a json list
note cat -encoding json
.ft
.fi
.SS Config
.LP
Display the current configuration as inferred by Note. It is also possible to extract specific values by specifying a key value.
.SS Examples
.sp 1
.nf
.ft CR
# display the current configuration
note config
# extract a specific value from the configuration
note config -get state_dir
.ft
.fi
.SS Create
.LP
Create a new note and save it to disk in your configured \f[CR]state_dir\f[R]. The \f[CR]on_modification\f[R] call back will be invoked if the file is committed to disk. 
.SS Examples
.sp 1
.nf
.ft CR
# create a new note with the given title and tags
note create "Remember The Milk" groceries fuu bar
# create a note by reading from stdin
note create -stdin <<EOF
# My Important Note

Hello World!
EOF
# the title will be inferred from the heading
note ls "My Important Note"
.ft
.fi
.SS Delete
.LP
Delete the first note that matches the filter criteria. The \f[CR]on_modification\f[R] call back will be invoked if the note is deleted. 
.SS Examples
.sp 1
.nf
.ft CR
# delete the note called fuubar

note delete fuubar
.ft
.fi
.SS Edit
.LP
Select a note that matches the filter criteria and open it in your \f[CR]$EDITOR\f[R]. The \f[CR]on_modification\f[R] call back will be invoked if the edited file differs from the original. 
.SS Examples
.sp 1
.nf
.ft CR
# edit the fuubar note
note edit fuubar
.ft
.fi
.SS List
.LP
List notes that match the filter criteria, if no filter criteria is given all notes will be listed
.SS Examples
.sp 1
.nf
.ft CR
# list all notes
note ls
.ft
.fi
